Big data is now being
generated all around us.
So what?
It's the applications.
It is the way in which big data can
serve human needs that makes it valued.
Let's look at a few examples of the
applications big data is allowing us to
imagine and build.
Big data allows us to build better models,
which produce higher precision results.
We are witnessing hugely innovative
approaches in how companies
market themselves and sell products.
How human resources are managed.
How disasters are responded to.
And many other applications that
evidenced based data is being
used to influence decisions.
What exactly does that mean?
Here is one example.
Many of you might have experienced it,
I do.
Data, Amazon keeps some
things I've been looking at
allows them to personalize
what they show me.
Which hopefully helps narrow down
the huge raft of options I might get
than just searching on dinner plates.
Now, businesses can leverage technology
to make better informed decisions
that are actually based on signals
generated by actual consumers, like me.
Big data enables you to hear
the voice of each consumer as
opposed to consumers at large.
Now, many companies,
including Walmart and Target,
use this information to personalize their
communications with their costumers, which
in turns leads to better met consumer
expectations and happier customers.
Which basically is to say, big data
has enabled personalized marketing.
Consumers are copiously generating
publicly accessible data through
social media sites,
like Twitter or Facebook.
Through such data, the companies
are able to see their purchase history,
what they searched for, what they watched,
where they have been, and
what they're interested in
through their likes and shares.
Let's look at some examples of how
companies are putting this information to
build better marketing campaigns and
reach the right customers.
One area we are all familiar with
are the recommendation engines.
These engines leverage user patterns and
product features
to predict best match product for
enriching the user experience.
If you ever shopped on Amazon,
you know you get recommendations
based on your purchase.
Similarly, Netflix would
recommend you to watch
new shows based on your viewing history.
Another technique that companies use is
sentiment analysis, or in simple terms,
analysis of the feelings around events and
products.
Remember the blue plates I
purchased on Amazon.com?
I not only can read the reviews
before purchasing them,
I can also write a product
review once I receive my plates.
This way, other customers can be informed.
But more importantly, Amazon can keep
a watch on the product reviews and
trends for a particular product.
In this case, blue plates.
For example, they can judge if a product
review is positive or negative.
In this case,
while the first review is negative,
the next two reviews are positive.
Since these reviews are written in
English using a technique called natural
language processing, and
other analytical methods,
Amazon can analyze the general opinion of
a person or public about such a product.
This is why sentiment analysis often
gets referred to as opinion mining.
News channels are filled with
Twitter feed analysis every time
an event of importance occurs,
such as elections.
Brands utilize sentiment analysis
to understand how customers
relate to their product,
positively, negatively, neutral.
This depends heavily on use of
natural language processing.
Mobile devices are ubiquitous and
people almost always carry
their cellphones with them.
Mobile advertising is a huge market for
businesses.
Platforms utilize the sensors
in mobile devices,
such as GPS, and
provide real time location based ads,
offer discounts,
based on this deluge of data.
This time, let's imagine that
I bought a new house and
I happen to be in a few
miles range of a Home Depot.
Sending me mobile coupons about paint,
shelves, and
other new home related purchases
would remind me of Home Depot.
There's a big chance I
would stop by Home Depot.
Bingo!
Now I would like to take a moment to
analyze what kinds of big data are needed
to make this happen.
There's definitely the integration
of my consumer information and
the online and offline databases
that include my recent purchases.
But more importantly,
the geolocation data that falls under
a larger type of big data,
spacial big data.
We will talk about spacial
data later in this class.
Let's now talk about how the global
consumer behavior can be used for
product growth.
We are now moving from
personalize marketing
to the consumer behavior as a whole.
Every business wants to understand
their consumer’s collective
behavior in order to capture
the ever-changing landscape.
Several big data products enable this
by developing models to capture user
behavior and allow businesses to target
the right audience for their product.
Or, develop new products for
uncharted territories.
Let's look at this example.
After an analysis of their sales for
weekdays,
an airline company might notice that their
morning flights are always sold out,
while their afternoon
flights run below capacity.
This company might decide to add more
morning flights based on such analysis.
Notice that they are not using
individual consumer choices, but
using all the flights purchased without
consideration to who purchased them.
They might, however,
decide to pay closer attention to
the demographic of these consumers
using big data to also add similar
flights in other geographical regions.
With rapid advances in genome
sequencing technology,
the life sciences industry is experiencing
an enormous draw in biomedical big data.
This biomedical data is being used
by many applications in research and
personalized medicine.
Did you know genomics data is one of
the largest growing big data types?
Between 100 million and 2 billion human
genomes could be sequenced by year 2025.
Impressive.
This [INAUDIBLE] sequence data demands for
between 2 exabytes and
40 exabytes in data storage.
In comparison, all of YouTube only
requires 1 to 2 exabytes a year.
An exabyte is 10 to the power 18 bites.
That is, 18 zeros after 40.
Of course, analysis of such massive
volumes of sequence data is expensive.
It could take up to 10,000
trillion CPU hours.
One of the biomedical applications
that this much data is enabling
is personalized medicine.
Before personalized medicine,
most patients without a specific type and
stage of cancer received
the same treatment,
which worked better for
some than the others.
Research in this area is enabling
development of methods to analyze
large scale data to develop solutions
that tailor to each individual,
and hence hypothesize
to be more effective.
A person with cancer may now still receive
a treatment plan that is standard,
such as surgery to remove a tumor.
However, the doctor may
also be able to recommend
some type of personalized
cancer treatment.
A big challenge in biomedical big data
applications, like many other fields,
is how we can integrate many types of data
sources to gain further insight problem.
In one of our future lectures,
my colleagues here at
the Supercomputer Center,
will explain how he and his colleague have
used big data from a variety of sources
for personalized patient interventions.
Another application of big data comes
from interconnected mesh of large
number of sensors implanted
across smart cities.
Analysis of data generated
from sensors in real time
allows cities to deliver better
service quality to inhabitants.
And reduce unwanted affect such
as pollution, traffic congestion,
higher than optimal cost on
delivering urban services.
Let's take our city, San Diego.
San Diego generates a huge volumes
of data from many sources.
Traffic sensors, satellites,
camera networks, and more.
What if we could integrate and
synthesize these data streams to
do even more for our community?
Using such big data,
we can work toward making San Diego
the prototype digital city.
Not only for life-threatening hazards, but
making our daily lives better, such as
managing traffic flow more efficiently or
maximizing energy savings,
even as we'll see next, wildfires.
If you want to read more,
here's a link to the AT Kearney report,
where they talk about other
areas using big data.
As a summary,
big data has a huge potential
to enable models with higher
precision in many application areas.
And these highly precise models
are influencing and transforming business.